Edge Essentials full deployment with Akri (#2006)
microsoft/azure_arc: docs/azure_arc_jumpstart/azure_arc_k8s/aks_hybrid/aks_edge_essentials_full_akri/_index.md

---
type: docs
title: "Discover ONVIF cameras with Akri on AKS Edge Essentials multi-node deployment"
linkTitle: "Discover ONVIF cameras with Akri on AKS Edge Essentials multi-node deployment"
weight: 3
description: >
---

## Discover ONVIF cameras with Akri on AKS Edge Essentials multi-node deployment

> The following Jumpstart scenario will show how to create an AKS Edge Essentials full deployment with two VMs in Hyper-V nested virtualization in an Azure Windows Server VM, and connect the Hyper-V VMs and AKS Edge Essentials cluster to Azure Arc using [Azure Bicep](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/azure-resource-manager/bicep/overview). Once Edge Essentials is deployed Akri is installed as a Kubernetes resource interface that exposes an IP mock camera as resources in the Edge Essentials cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following Jumpstart scenario will show how to create an AKS Edge Essentials full deployment with two VMs in Hyper-V nested virtualization in an Azure Windows Server VM, and connect the Hyper-V VMs and AKS Edge Essentials cluster to Azure Arc using [Azure Bicep](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/azure-resource-manager/bicep/overview). Once Edge Essentials is deployed [Akri](https://docs.akri.sh/) is installed as a Kubernetes resource interface that exposes an IP mock camera as resources in the Edge Essentials cluster.
```

Reviewer: Also, maybe add some context on Akri and ONVIF to set the stage for the scenario

Reviewer: Also add a link to give more context on ONVIF and in the first instance, don't use just the acronym. 

- Open Network Video Interface Forum
- https://wikipedia.org/wiki/ONVIF

![Screenshot _kubectl get nodes -o wide_ command](./26.png)

![Screenshot _kubectl get pod -A_ command](./27.png)

## Cluster extensions

In this scenario, Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes cluster Azure Monitor extension was installed:

- _azuremonitor-containers_ - The Azure Monitor Container Insights cluster extension. To learn more about it, you can check our Jumpstart ["Integrate Azure Monitor for Containers with GKE as an Azure Arc Connected Cluster using Kubernetes extensions"](https://azurearcjumpstart.io/azure_arc_jumpstart/azure_arc_k8s/day2/gke/gke_monitor_extension/) scenario.

To view these cluster extensions, click on the Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes resource Extensions settings.

  ![Screenshot showing the Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes installed extensions](./28.png)

## Akri deployment

> This scenario deploys Akri and it is used to discover ONVIF cameras that are connected to the same network as your AKS Edge Essentials cluster, in this instance a mock ONVIF camera is deployed as a container. These steps helps you get started using Akri to discover IP cameras through the ONVIF protocol and use them via a video broker that enables you to consume the footage from the camera and display it in a web application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This scenario deploys Akri and it is used to discover ONVIF cameras that are connected to the same network as your AKS Edge Essentials cluster, in this instance a mock ONVIF camera is deployed as a container. These steps help you get started using Akri to discover IP cameras through the ONVIF protocol and use them via a video broker that enables you to consume the footage from the camera and display it in a web application.
```

First, verify that Akri can discover the camera, it should be seen as one Akri instance that represents the ONVIF camera:

  ```shell
    kubectl get akrii
  ```

  ![Camera as Akri instance](./29.png)

> Now you need to get the Linux node IP and the port of your web app service. First get the port of the web app service by running:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, you will need to receive the Linux node IP and the port of your web app service. First, get the port of the web app service by running:
```

  ```shell
    kubectl get svc
  ```

  ![Web App service Port](./30.png)

To get the IP address open Hyper-V manager and access the console of one of the Windows nodes.

  ![Access Console](./31.png)

Once there, authenticate with:

- Username: Administrator

> - Password: JS123!!

Reviewer: Try to put this in a text code block

> Within the VM open a PowerShell window and run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Within the VM, open a PowerShell window and run:
```

  ```powershell
    Get-AksEdgeNodeAddr
  ```

  ![Get AKS edge node](./32.png)

> Also from the Windows HyperV VM open Edge browser and navigate to the service, you should see the video streaming

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also from the Windows Hyper-V VM, open the Edge browser and navigate to the service, you should see the video streaming
```

---
type: docs
title: "Discover ONVIF cameras with Akri on AKS Edge Essentials multi-node deployment"
linkTitle: "Discover ONVIF cameras with Akri on AKS Edge Essentials multi-node deployment"
weight: 3
description: >
---

## Discover ONVIF cameras with Akri on AKS Edge Essentials multi-node deployment

The following Jumpstart scenario will show how to create an AKS Edge Essentials full deployment with two VMs in Hyper-V nested virtualization in an Azure Windows Server VM, and connect the Hyper-V VMs and AKS Edge Essentials cluster to Azure Arc using [Azure Bicep](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/azure-resource-manager/bicep/overview). Once Edge Essentials is deployed [Akri](https://docs.akri.sh/) is installed as a Kubernetes resource interface that exposes an IP mock camera as resources in the Edge Essentials cluster.

> Akri is an opensource project for a Kubernetes resource interface that lets you expose heterogenous leaf devices as resources in a Kubernetes cluster. It currently supports OPC UA, ONVIF and udev protocols, but you can also implement custom protocol handlers provided by the template. In this scenario Akri is used for handling the dynamic appearance and disappearance of an [ONVIF](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ONVIF) mock camera as the Discovery Handler.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Akri is an open-source project for a Kubernetes resource interface that lets you expose heterogenous leaf devices as resources in a Kubernetes cluster. It currently supports OPC UA, ONVIF, and udev protocols, but you can also implement custom protocol handlers provided by the template. In this scenario, Akri is used for handling the dynamic appearance and disappearance of an [ONVIF](https://wikipedia.org/wiki/ONVIF) mock camera as the Discovery Handler.
```
